The app we built today was built
from a standpoint of kind of showing
an intentionally silly example so that we
didn't get too hung up on the details of
how your team should
handle incoming requests.
But the functionality that we've gone
through here is applicable to Slack,
it's applicable to Discord, it'll work in
any chat app that gives you API access.
And you don't have to use notion, you can
use any project management tool that your
team prefers that has API access.
So Jira, Linear, Trello, GitHub Issues,
anything you can think of, right?
And that is a really powerful workflow
that will let you hopefully simplify
your processes, give your team more
control over how they do work, and
eliminate some of that
just admin overhead.
You don't have somebody who's gotta
monitor the channel to make sure that
things don't get dropped.
You've got the ability to gently
nudge your co-workers without that,
even that small conflict of having to
tell somebody that the way they did
something isn't the preferred way.
And as you can probably imagine,
there are a lot of things that you
can do with this that let you take this so
much further.
So a couple of things that
you might use this for
that aren't directly process related.
You could send a weekly update on your
key metrics by pulling those from
different APIs that your team monitors.
You could allow your team members to
check the status of a service with
a slash command,
you could kinda have an uptime bot.
You could create an intake fossa,
what we did creating an intake process for
cross functional requests.
So if a team that's not your team needs
some help, they use this modal to ask for
the help and
clarify what they need and why.
You could create a quick
capture process for new ideas.
If you are on a team like a lot of the
teams I've been on, everybody's coming up
with really fun ideas that you
can't prioritize it right now, but
it is something you wanna do
since you don't wanna lose track.
So having an idea/command
that puts it in to list for
the next time you are ready
to start prioritizing work,
that's a great way to make sure
that people's ideas don't get lost.
And that you don't lose some of
those great ideas that could
be excellent to work on once you
finished your account workload.
And you could also do something like
having a way to relay customer feedback or
customer requests.
If you're the support team,
if you're a developer experience team,
if you're out with your customers and they
have something that they wish existed or
something that they don't like.
Have a quick way in Slack to say,
hey, customers didn't like this, and
then that posts to the right channel and
it posts as a GitHub Issue.
And give somebody an ability to actually
act on that feedback instead of having to
go back through Slack to try to find where
that message was when they do have some
time to triage that.
So another way to look at
this is you can make ChatOps
do just about anything that
you can do with an API.
So if you can figure out how to access
any process that you have in your company
via API, you can probably find a way
to hook it into your ChatOps workflow.
Because again, putting people into
the context they're already in,
people are discussing something in Slack,
they have a question,
they're in Slack, they wanna ask you for
something, they're in Slack.
That is all, just put the work there.
If somebody's asking a question,
you can run a slash command
that shows them the answer.
Or even better, they can run
a slash command themselves and
then they don't have to ask the question.
That's a great way to make sure that your
team is following processes, that they're
clear on how things get done, and
that you don't spend a lot of time doing
admin work instead of building things
that actually move your company forward.
So thanks, everybody,
for hanging out today.
If you have questions,
if you wanna find more of what I've done,
you can head over to learnwithjason.dev or
Jason.af.
I have a lot of educational
material that I hope you'll enjoy.
I go live twice a week on Twitch,
Tuesdays and Thursdays, if you want to
follow along, and you can find all of that
on the homepage of learnwithjason.dev.
Hope to see you there.